Welcome back.
In this video we're going to talk about what stems and words stemming as well as removing punctuation.
These are gonna be the next two steps in our pre processing stage again and we'll work with an example
sentence before applying the all of this to our email dataset.
I'm going to add a quick markdown cell here that reads words stems and stemming now what do I mean when
I say word stems and words stemming you see stemming is the process of reducing words to their base
or their root form.
The idea behind words stemming is to treat inflected or derived words in the same way.
So for example the words fishing fished Fisher and fish like are all reduced by the steamer to the word
fish endings like ISG and fishing or E.D. in fished are removed by the stemming software.
Now the thing to note about stemming is that the steamer might not produce quote unquote proper words.
That is to say you might not end up with a real word.
After removing the stem.
So for example the words argue argued argues and arguing are all stemmed to the word argue now this
is not an error.
The purpose of the stemming algorithm is to bring the variant forms of the word together and not to
map a word to its paradigm form if you will.
The stammer that I'd like to introduce to you is the de facto standard steamer for the English language
the port EMR.
This algorithm was written by Martin Porter all the way back in the 1980s at the University of Cambridge
in a previous lesson.
We've already imported the porter sum of functionality from an al T.K. at the top of our Jupiter notebook.
Now it's time to put it to use.
I'm going to copy this cell here and then I'm going to paste it below my marker what I can do now is
simply save the portal stem up to a variable so I'll just say stammer equals Porto stem up parentheses
and then to use this demo.
I'm going to go inside my for loop just before appending the words I'll create another variable called
stemmed underscore would and this will be equal to the result of the stem method from the stammer.
So when I use the stammer put a dot after it called a STEM method and then hit between the parentheses
I'm going to supply the word that our loop is looping over stem the word stored inside this variable
here and then instead of appending the original word I will simply append the stemmed word.
Now looking at our example sentence here the word makes is a clear clear candidate for stemming let
me hit shift enter and see what it will be stem to makes its attempt to make.
Now it turns out this was only one word in our example sentence that was stemmed.
Perhaps we should add another word that's stemming candidate at the very end just to try out how the
stem or works.
I'm going to expand the example sentence with a few more words so I'm gonna wrap my line across two
lines on Python so I don't have a very very long sentence all in the same line.
So when you use that backslash that escape character which escapes me pressing enter on my keyboard
now I'm going to add a few more words to my example sentence.
Nobody expects the Spanish Inquisition.
There we go.
Let's see how our ports steamer handles this.
So quite interesting nobody gets steamed to nobody with an eye with expect the stomach drops the S and
with the word Inquisition the steamer drops the letters I oh and at the end now one thing I'll say is
that you're not actually limited to using the port ACMA from the multi K tool box there's quite a few
to choose from there's almost like a menu the reason you might want to use a different steamer other
than the ports demo for example is if you're stemming a different language scrolling up to the top tour
imports a popular choice for other steamers is the snowball steamer so an K dots them can also import
the snowball steamer and the nice thing with the snowball steamer is that if I come down here copy this
line comment this out pasted in and substitute the snowball steamer here I can choose a language for
example yeah English obviously we can use the snowball steamer with English but if we go to the documentation
him from an LTE K and we scroll down a bit to the snowball steamer then what you'll see is that there's
other options to write there's Arabic there's Finnish there's French there's German there's Hungarian
Swedish Norwegian quite a few Romanian like the list goes on right Russian so you can have a look I'll
put the link in the lesson resources so yeah if you ever want to stem words and use this tool on text
that is not English.
The Snowball steamer is your friend okay so that pretty much covers stemming the next thing that will
do to clean up the email text and the words is to remove the punctuation are spam classifier is not
gonna be very interested in the punctuation for the sentences we can see at the moment we still have
these full stops in our output and a exclamation mark and if we add question marks or anything else
it'll show up as well.
To remove the punctuation I'm going to copy the some pasted below and then also just quickly add a markdown
cell here to commemorate what we're doing.
So I'll say removing punctuation and then I'll delete a few of these comments here format this slightly
differently maybe I had the odd question mark here hit shift enter and now we're ready to go.
Removing punctuation is well I think there's like an easy way and there's a hard way and I'll show you
the easiest way you can do this you see Python strings have a fantastic method called is alpha so if
you've got a string say a single character the letter P and you put a dot after it and then type is
Alpha just like so then this will check if you've got a character or punctuation in this case the method
returns true but if we had say a question mark and wrote is alpha then this would return false move
these cells up slightly so we've got them up here and I want to maybe pose a mini challenge to you can
you modify our code in this cell so that all these special characters hear all these punctuation characters
full stop question marks exclamation marks get excluded from the output what would you change in our
code here to accomplish this I'll give you a few seconds to pause the video and then I'll show you the
solution did you have a go what I would do is to modify this condition here not only would I check if
the word is part of the stop words but I would also say that punctuation should not be included in our
list so we can take the word put a dot after it and say is Alpha parentheses this bit of code will only
return true if it hits an actual word like boy or adult it will not return true for the full stops or
the question marks let's check it out if it works.
Surprise surprise I've planned out this tutorial and it and it does work.
So there you go.
This is how you can use a built in method from the Python strings to check for punctuation and excluded
if necessary in the next lesson.
I'm going to show you how to tackle the HDMI tags in the emails.
I'll see you there.
Stay tuned.